It was just a department of business then, wasn't
it? It was agricultural economics. And they were
in the building toward the system building from
Cushing.
I don't remember. I really don't. I'm sorry. Was Ty
Timm there in Ag Econ yet? Tyris Tim. Yeah, I don't
remember. I don't think so. I never heard the name.
As you look back now, what were some of the most
important courses that you took? Well,
statistics, business cycles, accounting, of
course. Do you remember who taught that? No, I
don't. And about the typical business class had
how many students in it? Well, not too many. That's
what I liked. You know, maybe 20, 30. And if you
needed to see a teacher, one of your instructors,
were they hard to locate? You know, I don't
remember having to. So I can't really answer it.
But I think they used to hang around a while and
talk, unless they had another class or something.
I never saw them being aloof or not wanting to talk
to somebody. They all seemed real, real nice. Do
you remember any easy pushover courses? My
freshman year, you know, Spanish. I spoke Spanish
better than the professor did. Math was real easy
then. My whole freshman year was kind of a
pushover. In fact, had you been well prepared at El
Paso High? For all these things, I was, yes. Yes, I
sure was. And your problem in chemistry was you
hadn't taken chemistry. I hadn't prepared myself
for engineering. I said, I want to be an engineer.
My parents were immigrants, and they didn't know
how to prepare me. They didn't ask me about the
future. They didn't ask me what I wanted to do. They
just wanted me to go to college. I thought, you just
went to college, you know?
Of course, as I look back, I wouldn't have changed a
thing. I'm really happy with my life, you know. I'm
happy, extra happy with my experience at A&M. I
think it matured me, you know, and I needed that.
Really bad for...
The easy courses, there weren't any special
courses for athletes or rich kids or anything like
that, were there? Not that I'm aware of. I've never
heard of it. I know there was a special table for
athletes. They had better, well I can't say better
food. Maybe they had more food than we did, because
the food was good. Were there any, in your years
there, were there any celebrity students? That
is, students that were famous because of their
parents being rich or they were great athletes?
No, no, never. Well, you know, some of the football
players we admired, but they didn't. Who were some
of those? Oh, gosh, let's see. What was his name? I
thought he was so good-looking, man. He was
really handsome. He was... I guess one of his
relatives was a senator or a congressman or
something. What was his name? Not Zabriskie, that
was a coach.
Oh, gosh. Well, besides my cousin Art, you know.
Did any famous people come to visit the campus? Bob
Hope came once. Really? Yeah. Did you see him? Oh,
yeah. We sat next to him at, what was the name of that
restaurant there? It's probably still there. Not
Hotard's, that was in Bryan. Is it still there? No,
but it was there when I got there. Oh man, that was
wonderful food for a cafeteria. And where did Bob
Hope perform? In the hall. In Bryan Hall. In Bryan
Hall? And you went to? Yeah. And then we went to eat
at North Gate restaurant, and he was there eating.
And we sat real close to him there. But, of course, I
didn't ask him for his autograph or anything. I was
still, you know.
And when you and your buddies went to a movie in
Guyon Hall, what was it like? How did Aggies behave
at Guyon? Good. Did they make noise, though? No.
Only in reaction to the movie, I think. Later,
apparently, the kids would make lots of noise.
They would shout and ha-ha and boo and so forth.
Wow. I don't remember. As you got settled in, where
did you and your buddies go to have a good time on
Saturday night?
Well, we used to go to the Baptist Church on
Wednesday nights. They had a couple of people
there that were real good. I used to go with a fellow
from, I think, Harlingen, right around there.
Name was Frog Nash. Big old guy. Just as sweet and
lovable as you can imagine. We used to go together
on Wednesday nights. And I used to love to go with
him because... i can't carry a tune and my voice is
terrible but it's not strong he couldn't carry a
tune either but he had a big voice and he'd sing so i
could sing right along with him because i knew
nobody was going to hear me and it was a lot of fun
saturdays what was one of the reason for y'all
going on wednesday night did they serve food no oh
this one no okay and they took a collection but it
was just just not it was something to do really we uh
Now, had you been a churchgoer at home? No. We grew
up Orthodox, so we didn't have a church. I'm
Presbyterian now, but then we didn't have a
church. But when you were in college at A&M, did you
go on Sundays? No, just Wednesday nights. What did
you and your buddies do then on a Sunday? Well, like
on a Saturday, there was a restaurant. in Bryan,
around Bryan somewhere, called Wimpy's. And they
had real steaks that were cheap. I don't know, a
dollar or two dollars, I don't know. Real thin, and
they were pan fried, but they were really good. And
we'd go over there and have a steak, or we'd go to
Hotard's and eat, go to a movie.
We didn't drink a lot, so we didn't go out and drink.
How did you get around? Did you ride the bus much? We
rode the bus, yeah, to Bryan. And you always wore
your uniforms off campus? Yes, yes. I always did,
except when we turned non-reg my senior year, I
didn't. In fact, I stayed in the Corps one year. My
junior year, one semester, without a contract. I
just stayed in the Corps. And then I went non-reg, I
figured it wouldn't, you know. Back to other
celebrity visitors other than Bob Hope. Anybody,
any other famous people come? There was a preacher
from Oklahoma that used to come. Just inspiring
and I forgot it. I think it was Alexander. I'm not
sure used to come from Oklahoma and Give sermons or
perform. I don't know he gave sermons, but he just
did him so It was entertainment. You know, it was so
good. Where did he speak that guy had gone? Mm-hmm.
Yeah Well now did any of the big orchestras come to
play for the dances I Tommy Dorsey? You know,
probably. But I only went to one dance, that was my
senior ring dance. That's the only dance I went to.
So I wasn't really aware of it.
The YMCA, is that where you all went to get a soft
drink and coffee? No, we went to Lupo's. Lupo's
Trading Post, I think was the name of it, wasn't it?
Mm-hmm. Yeah. Still there at Northgate. It is? His
son's running it. Isn't that something? Where did
you buy your books, from Lupo? I think so. Did you
ever borrow any money from him? No, never did. He
loaned money to lots of students interest-free to
pay for your books. Wow. I think, I don't know
whether I cashed checks there or some, I think I
cashed checks there. And the post office was at
Northgate? Yeah, yeah, it was close by, yeah. You
didn't have any blind dates with girls from T.W.
Tessie's? Yeah, Texas, yeah. I think my junior
year. my cousin's sister fixed us up with a couple
of girls and It was a disaster They we hadn't met him
we didn't know him and I Guess they looked at us the
way we looked at them, you know, it just didn't go
and that was the only blind date ever But how were
how were young women treated? on the A&M campus I
thought real good. I mean, you know, I never heard
anybody complain. I've never heard anything but
positive. Yeah, oh yeah, real good.
You didn't get sick, you didn't have to go to the
quack shack? No, no, never did. Is that what they
called it? In general, describe the student body
when you were there. Where were they from? What
kind of families? Where geographically? What
were their attitudes?
Gosh, they were from all over the state. We had a few
from Mexico, too.
I don't know. They all had really good attitudes.
Everybody that I met did. Were they rich boys, poor
boys? You never could tell. You never could tell
whether they had money or not. Everybody was
treated the same. Nobody asked if they had money. I
couldn't tell. That's one of the common threads
that goes through all these interviews. Yeah, I
really couldn't tell. And I don't think anybody
could tell about me, and I was frugal. But I don't
think anybody ever asked me. I don't think anybody
ever said I was a poor boy. No, it was real nice. Now,
what did it take to be accepted as one of the group?
I don't know. I think it just happened. Am
I correct that you had to participate? Oh, yeah,
sure, sure. But once you did that, you know, you
were... It was kind of like a family. I mean, you
know, all the outfits had cohesion, you know. They
were proud of their outfit and they stuck
together. And there were some Jewish boys and
Catholic boys? Oh yeah, I had two or three. Yeah, I
had two or three Jewish boys in my outfit.
Do you remember what any of those other guys'
nicknames were? No. Because the Maltz boys from
Houston, Jewish. Oh, yeah, I knew one of them.
Class of 51. They said their nickname was Jew Boy.
Really? And I said, was it a put-down? He said, no,
we were proud to be Jewish. That's right. No, they
never, of course, all the Jewish guys in my outfit
were above me. Mr. Holstey from Galveston, what a
cutie. He was funny. He was a nice guy, too. He was an
upperclassman. Bushman, there was one named
Bushman. He was real nice, kind of, he was kind of an
upperclassman, you know what I mean? Where Holst,
he was, you know, he was an upperclassman, but he
kind of, you know, joked around and kind of, who
else? And did many Aggies have cars then? No, no,
very few. Now, what year was it that there were so
many freshmen with the veterans that they moved
the fresh out to the old air base?
That must have been after I left. Is that right? I
think so, because I don't remember it happening.
Okay, because somewhere about that time, and so
the sophomores didn't have anybody to haze. Oh,
boy. No, no, that didn't happen while I was there. I
graduated in June of 49. I believe maybe it's that
fall. Describe the religious activities on
campus and around the campus. Well, like I said, on
Wednesday nights, I used to go to the Baptist
Wednesday night meetings. But there were a number
of other congregations. Yeah, there was an
Episcopal congregation. I went there a couple of
times because when we were children, we went to the
Episcopal Church because it was the closest in
theology and everything to the Orthodox Church.
We went there just a couple of times.
And then that preacher that used to come from
Oklahoma, uh he always drew a crowd it was was there
a spring religious emphasis week then there would
be in the 50s yeah i don't remember it unless that
was what was that was when that guy from oklahoma
came down you know that could have been um football
games what about basketball games did y'all you
and your buddies go to the games i didn't go to many
we went to some baseball games We were freshmen
because they used to make us shoot a back gun. I
hated it. They made us do it, you know. At the game?
Yeah, at the game, yeah. So I went to a few games
then, but after that I didn't go to many. Who was the
commandant of the Corps when you were there? Do you
remember? General or colonel? Yeah. Was Boatner
there yet? No. No. And, you know, Tom Parsons was
the commandant there several years ago. He was in
our class. That's what I thought. Yeah. And he was
in B battery, I think, when I was in E battery or A
battery. He was a sophomore when I was a freshman.
I've interviewed him. Nice guy. Who was the
president? Gilchrist? Yeah, we had kind of a
revolution or something. They wanted to get rid of
one of the presidents, and we all marched on his
home. The guy, the upperclassmen turned in their
sabers. I don't even remember who it was. I think it
was Gilchrist. I think it was, yeah. Were you in
that group? Yes, yeah. I marched with them, but,
you know. You didn't turn in your saber. I didn't
have one. We just were supposed to go and we went,
you know, yeah. And as I understand it, he was
pretty firm. He must have been because nothing
happened, you know. Yes.
Was Reveley around? Yeah, yeah. What did you and
your buddies think of Reveley? Everybody loved
her, you know, she wasn't she wasn't a pest. Oh, I
never saw her except at football games, you know,
yeah In fact, I don't know where they kept her or
anything What did you and your buddies think
about? Yale leaders and Corps commanders and We
thought it was a nice place to be I did you know I
thought they deserved it and I think they earned it
I mean it was it was something that You respected
them? Yeah, absolutely, yeah. It was something
that you earned, something you probably worked
for, and something you deserved, you know. Oh,
yeah. As you think back, did you have a favorite
Aggie yell?
Saw. Saw Varsity's horns off? Saw Varsity's horns
off.
Now, you're there between World War II and the
Korean War. So it is a period of boom. Was the area
around the college growing?
It might have been just beginning to. It wasn't
boom boom yet, you know. but college view those
married student apartments for the veterans was
crowded yeah oh yeah what kind of students how what
quality of students were the veterans they were a
lot better students than they would have been out
of high school they were really serious about
their education i noticed that they had matured
they had matured and they were ready you know they
they really i got to know several of them and
everything and they really Had a mission. I mean,
they wanted an education, and they were going to
get it, and they were going to learn, and they
worked at it. All the ones I knew. Did you
non-veterans think that they made it tougher for
you all to make good grades? I didn't. I didn't. No,
but, you know, they might have made us study a
little harder just because we saw how they were
doing and how they appreciated education and
valued it. Now, there were also some veterans
living in temporary housing down near Kyle Field,
weren't there? I don't remember those.
What did you and your buddies think about the band?
Oh, we lived with the band. They were above us, you
know. And we knew them as individuals, as people,
and they were wonderful. And they worked hard. Did
they? They worked hard. You know, they used to
practice every afternoon. They gave up a lot of
their time, and it showed. Did you and your buddies
ever play tricks on them? Did the, was there in the
dormitory any? No, no, I don't remember doing
anything with them. I think when we were with B
Battery, we used to have those, what did they used
to call them when we used to flood a guy out?
Drownouts. Drownouts, yeah, we had a couple of
those, not many. But no, I don't think, I never did.
Do you remember any good stories about pranks,
Good Bull? Any tricks that you may have known
about?
Did you ever go down in the steam tunnels? No.
Really? Never did. Never even knew there were
steam tunnels. Nobody ever told me. Did you know
that there were secret fraternities? No, I
didn't. Were there? Were very many people aware of
that? No. That's what I thought. Very, very few.
Let's see, we did hitchhiking and dates. When you
and your buddies went out to have a good time on
Saturday night, you sometimes went out to eat,
went to a movie. Where did people go to have a drink?
You know, I don't know. I never went. I really don't
know. Did you not drink any beer, any whiskey in
those years?
One time,
my senior year, or was it my junior year, in the
non-regs,
I had broken up with my wife that I had met
previously at TSCW, and she was coming down to a
dance with one of her boyfriends that she knew from
her hometown.
And I wanted to sneak a peek at her, see if I could see
her, find her, and my roommate, Ken Hone, got a
bottle of wine. I don't know where he got it from.
And I did get drunk and I never went out. I got drunk
and conked out. And that was the only time I
remember that I had a drink. Where were you when you
did that drink? In my room. Oh, in your room? Yeah.
Okay. And so it wasn't with a big crowd or anything?
No, no. I never, and I don't even know whether, I
don't think I even drank on court trips. All right.
Did any of your buddies ever go to Uncle Ed's, to
Hard Liquor's? I don't even remember. I don't even
know Uncle Ed's. That was down the Welborn Road,
directly south of Kyle Field, about a mile. Isn't
that something? Then Whiskey Bridge. That was
straight west going to Snook. You went into the
next county where alcohol was legal. I must have
run around with a lot of teetotalers because I
never remember those. I mean, I didn't even know
about those things. I wasn't aware of it. Let's
see. What were Aggies smoking then? Cigarettes.
What kind? Yeah. What brands? Mostly
non-filters. I know I smoked Camels. I smoked for
10 years. Mm-hmm. I started at A&M. You started at
A&M? I started at A&M. Looking back, what
percentage do you suspect of Aggies smoked? 60%,
70% maybe. Did you know some Aggies that rolled
their own? I never saw one. What about cigars?
few pipes maybe a couple i saw yeah mostly
cigarettes and did you all know that drugs existed
had
you ever heard the word marijuana or heroin i might
have heard it but i never was aware of i don't think i
heard it at a m the only time i ever heard about drugs
was one of the drivers that used to bring stuff to my
dad's store said something about marijuana one
time. I didn't even know what it was, but I never did
hear about it at A&M. I wasn't aware of drugs at all.
I don't think it was a big thing then, but it might
have been. I mean, you know, I don't know. If you
needed advice, who did you turn to? Well, I used to
go to my cousin Arthur, you know, when he was there.
And he was real good. And then, of course, Albert
Mullooly was there, too, and I'd go see him. Now, Al
Mullooly is what year ahead of you? He was a class of
45. Forty-five. Okay. All right. And I'd go see
him. Was there an El Paso hometown club?
I might have gone to a meeting once. I don't know. I
remember the football player's name now. Monty
Moncrief. Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Good-looking guy.
Yes, yes, yes. Good football player, too. Now, you
came home every summer. Yes. And did you work for
the family every summer? Except that first
summer. All right. As you go back your third year,
you didn't get a contract. No. Do you have any idea
why? I think flat feet or something. Because
during the Korean War I got called. And this was
right after my wedding. I got married September
3rd. I had to go for my physical September the 11th.
So we went to New Orleans, came back for our
honeymoon, came back to El Paso. And went and got my
physical, and didn't pass that either. And I think
it was my flat feet. That's the only thing I could
think of. You know, physically I was in good shape,
but I never... Now, where did you meet this special
young lady? I met her at TSCW. Okay. She was
Lebanese. From where? From Marshall, Texas.
Marshall. And how long had her family been in the
United States? A long time, a lot longer than we
had. In fact, she didn't even speak Arabic. I mean,
her parents spoke Arabic to keep secrets from the
children. It had reached that stage. And
so you meet her while you're at A&M? I met her on a
court trip. One of my cousins introduced me.
That was it. Introduced me, hi, hi, and that was it.
I forgot about her. You know, that was all. Then we
went, I had two cousins that were at TSCW. We went up
there for a weekend four or five months later. She
introduced me again. And God, this time I thought,
gosh, she's so beautiful. She's so nice. I don't
know what happened the first time that I didn't.
When you went up there, you and your buddies, where
did you all stay in Denton? We stayed in a motel. Oh,
did you? Yeah. And a bunch of you piled into one car
to go up there? Well, usually just my cousin and I
would go. And sometimes we'd take, I think there
was a fellow named Dave Goddard that was in our
junior or senior year that was going with Abe's
sister, and he'd go up with us. All right, now as
this romance builds, how did y'all communicate?
We wrote. Yeah, letters. You didn't get on the
phone very often, I bet. No. And she still got some
of the letters. Oh, good. I had a bunch. I don't know
what happened. Oh, good, good, good. Now, pass
those on to the children so they stay in the family.
Don't let those get thrown away. And as you're
looking toward graduation, what did you think you
were going to do when you graduated from A&M? Well,
I interviewed. And, you know, I was still a
bashful, backward kind of guy, and I interviewed
with J.C. Penney, I think, or Sears, one of those,
and I just, you know, didn't know how to talk to him.
And, of course, we'll let you know. Didn't even get
a letter from him. I came home, and I said, well, I
didn't know what I was going to do. I just... Didn't
have much self-confidence and just said, well, I
don't know. I came home and got a job with a truck
line, minimum wage, keeping books. And I said,
well, this isn't for me. I just can't do this all my
life. I had my girlfriend, you know, and we were
kind of getting serious. So I went to my dad and I
says, no, I didn't. No, I was still working. for
this outfit.
I worked for maybe six months. And then of course,
then we got married. My wife and I got married
September 3rd. Then I had my physical. Then I
started selling insurance. And that didn't work.
It was just, it was this dollar a week insurance,
you know, with American National. I stayed with
them a year and a half or two. I said, you know, this
just isn't for me. Joy's father had given her
$5,000 as a dowry. I had $3,000 or $4,000 that I had
saved. I bought a car with, so I didn't have any
money. So I says, you know, Joy, I don't know what to
do. She says, well, why don't we... Your dad's
getting old. Why don't we buy him out and see? So we
went to Daddy, and I says, Daddy... Why don't I take
over here? He said, well, let's take inventory and
see how much it is. Anyway, it ended up being
$3,600. So we paid him and we took it over. And then
we started from there. And then things got better.
Business picked up.
Let's see, we did this in, I don't know, 51 or 52.
Business got so good, we tore the house down, built
the store behind it about three times as big, then
tore the front store down, had a nice little
superette, you know, 54. And so we kept working,
business got better, business got better,
business got better. So 58, I bought the house next
door. We tore it down, added to the store. And by the
time we finished, we had a 10,000 square foot
grocery store. We were doing about $3 million a
year. And that's what we did for 30 years. Then in
1980, we sold the store. We kept the property. We
sold the store. And I sold real estate for a couple
of years. My son had this music business that he had
started from the store we had set him up in, because
that's what he wanted to do. And he was having a hard
time. by himself, and he'd done a couple of bad
deals. He was about to go bankrupt, and I wanted to
get out of the real estate business. I didn't like
it. I said, maybe I'll go help him. So I got with him
and got him straightened out, and I'm still there.
We've jumped a little, but as you got into the real
world of business, What had you learned at Texas
A&M about the real world and about people that
helped you? Everything. Everything. I
remember just thinking, gosh, you know, if it
wasn't for A&M, I wouldn't know this, or I wouldn't
have done this. It just helped me a lot with my
judgment. It helped me a lot with my risk-taking.
And it helped me a lot dealing with people, you
know, looking them in the eye, shaking hands with
them firmly. You know, it transformed me. Really,
it did.